.TH DISTUP 1 "December 2025" "distup 1.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
distup \- safely upgrade any Linux distribution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B distup
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B distup
automatically detects your Linux distribution and runs the appropriate
upgrade script with any provided arguments. It provides a unified interface
for upgrading Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, Arch, Alpine, openSUSE, Kali, Rocky
Linux, and AlmaLinux systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-list
List all supported distributions and their upgrade scripts.
.TP
.B \-\-detect
Show detected distribution without running upgrade.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Pass dry-run mode to upgrade script. Shows what would be done without
making any changes.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Show help message.
.SH ARGUMENTS
Any additional arguments are passed directly to the distribution-specific
upgrade script. See the individual script documentation for available options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B sudo distup
Auto-detect distribution and show interactive menu.
.TP
.B sudo distup \-\-dry\-run
Simulate upgrade with auto-detection.
.TP
.B sudo distup lts
Ubuntu: upgrade to latest LTS release.
.TP
.B sudo distup \-\-dry\-run stable
Dry run upgrade to stable release.
.SH SUPPORTED DISTRIBUTIONS
.TS
l l l.
Distribution	Script	Upgrade Paths
_
Ubuntu	upgrade-ubuntu.sh	lts, release
Debian	upgrade-debian.sh	stable, testing, sid
Fedora	upgrade-fedora.sh	stable, rawhide
Arch Linux	upgrade-arch.sh	rolling
Alpine Linux	upgrade-alpine.sh	stable, edge
openSUSE	upgrade-opensuse.sh	leap, tumbleweed
Kali Linux	upgrade-kali.sh	rolling, bleeding-edge
Rocky Linux	upgrade-rhel-clone.sh	--check, --upgrade
AlmaLinux	upgrade-rhel-clone.sh	--check, --upgrade
.TE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/upgrade-*.log
Log files created by upgrade scripts.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (unsupported distribution, missing script, etc.).
.SH SECURITY
All scripts require root privileges. Repository configurations are backed
up before modification. Use \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR to preview changes before
applying them.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kris Armstrong.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/krisarmstrong/distup/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR upgrade-ubuntu (1),
.BR upgrade-debian (1),
.BR upgrade-fedora (1),
.BR upgrade-arch (1),
.BR upgrade-alpine (1),
.BR upgrade-opensuse (1),
.BR upgrade-kali (1),
.BR upgrade-rhel-clone (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 Kris Armstrong. License: MIT.
