.TH UPGRADE-RHEL-CLONE 1 "December 2025" "distup 1.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
upgrade-rhel-clone \- upgrade Rocky Linux or AlmaLinux to next major version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upgrade-rhel-clone
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B upgrade-rhel-clone
upgrades Rocky Linux or AlmaLinux systems to the next major version using
the ELevate project and leapp upgrade tool.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-check
Run pre-upgrade check only. Recommended before upgrading.
.TP
.B \-\-upgrade
Perform the actual upgrade after reviewing check results.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be done without making any changes.
.TP
.B \-\-version\fR, \fB\-V
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-\-help\fR, \fB\-h
Show help message.
.SH WORKFLOW
.IP 1. 3
Run with \fB\-\-check\fR to analyze system and generate report.
.IP 2. 3
Review /var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt for issues.
.IP 3. 3
Resolve any high-severity issues.
.IP 4. 3
Run with \fB\-\-upgrade\fR to perform actual upgrade.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/yum.repos.d/
Repository configuration (backed up before modification).
.TP
.I /var/log/leapp/leapp-report.txt
Pre-upgrade analysis report.
.TP
.I /var/log/upgrade-rhel-clone-*.log
Log file containing detailed upgrade output.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Major version upgrades require careful planning.
.IP \(bu 2
System will reboot during upgrade process.
.IP \(bu 2
Process may take 30-60 minutes.
.IP \(bu 2
Test in non-production environment first.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kris Armstrong.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR distup (1),
.BR leapp (8),
.BR dnf (8)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 Kris Armstrong. License: MIT.
