.TH UPGRADE-UBUNTU 1 "December 2025" "distup 1.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
upgrade-ubuntu \- upgrade Ubuntu to latest LTS or standard release
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upgrade-ubuntu
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fBlts\fR|\fBrelease\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B upgrade-ubuntu
upgrades Ubuntu systems to the latest LTS (Long Term Support) or standard
release. It handles package updates, release configuration, and the actual
distribution upgrade using do-release-upgrade.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be done without making any changes. Useful for previewing
the upgrade process.
.TP
.B \-\-version\fR, \fB\-V
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-\-help\fR, \fB\-h
Show help message.
.SH MODES
.TP
.B lts
Upgrade to the latest Long Term Support release. LTS releases have 5-year
support and are recommended for servers and production systems.
.TP
.B release
Upgrade to the latest available release, including interim releases. Interim
releases have 9-month support and include the newest features.
.PP
If no mode is specified, an interactive menu is displayed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B sudo upgrade-ubuntu
Show interactive menu to choose upgrade path.
.TP
.B sudo upgrade-ubuntu lts
Upgrade to latest LTS release.
.TP
.B sudo upgrade-ubuntu \-\-dry\-run release
Preview upgrade to latest release without making changes.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/upgrade-ubuntu-*.log
Log file containing detailed upgrade output.
.TP
.I /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades
Configuration file for release upgrade behavior.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (not Ubuntu, not root, upgrade failed, etc.).
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
A system reboot is required after upgrade.
.IP \(bu 2
Back up important data before upgrading.
.IP \(bu 2
Release upgrades may require multiple runs (one version at a time).
.IP \(bu 2
Minimum 5GB disk space recommended.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Kris Armstrong.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR distup (1),
.BR do-release-upgrade (8)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 Kris Armstrong. License: MIT.
